Source: https://tcaaa.tamu.edu/files/2020/04/Texas-Holdem-Rules.pdf

Texas Hold'em is played with a standard deck of 52 cards. The object of the game is to make the best
possible five-card poker hand using any combination of the two card's in a player's hand (known as
the hole cards) and the five community cards that the dealer places in the middle of the table, which
can be used by all players. The standard hand rankings are used, as follows (from best to worst)
Straight Flush Any five cards of the same suit and consecutive rank; the best of these hands,
AKQJT of a single suit, is known as a Royal Flush. For these and regular straights, aces may be
played as high or low cards.
Four of a Kind Any four cards of the same rank.
Full House Any three cards from a single rank combined with a pair from a different rank (i.e.,
T7T55).
Flush Any five cards of the same suit.
Straight Any five cards of consecutive ranks (i.e., 34567).
Three of a Kind Any three cards of the same rank.
Two Pair Any two pairs of cards from the same ranks (ie, 5599A).
One Pair Any two cards of the same rank.
High Card Hands that do not fit any of the above categories are ranked based on the highest card
in their hand (aces are high), then by the second highest card, and so on.

Typically, a game of Texas Hold'em will be played with anywhere from two to ten players at a table.
Games with more players are possible, since each player only needs two cards for themselves, but
games with more than 11 players at a single table are rare.
Games of Texas Hold'em may be played with many different betting structures. Common ones include
Limit Hold'em, where the amount a player may bet is set by the rules of the game, and No Limit
Hold'em, where players are free to bet as much of the money they have at the table as they wish at
any time. Other structures include Pot Limit Hold'em and Spread Limit Hold'em.
Texas Hold'em Rules Flow of a Hand
At the beginning of the first hand of play, one player will be assigned the dealer button (in home
games, this player will also traditionally act as the dealer for that hand). The player immediately to
the left of the button must post the small blind, while the player two seats to the left of the button
must post the big blind. The size of these blinds is typically determined by the rules of the game. If
any ante is required - common in a tournament situation - players should also contribute it at this
point.
Once all blinds have been posted and antes have been paid, the dealer will deal two cards to each
player. Each player may examine their own cards. The play begins with the player to the left of the big
blind. That player may choose to fold, in which case they forfeit their cards and are done with play for
that hand. The player may also choose to call the bet, placing an amount of money into the pot equal
to the size of the big blind. Finally, the player can also choose to raise, increasing the size of the bet
required for other players to stay in the hand.
Moving around the table clockwise, each player may then choose to take any of those options folding,
calling the current bet, or raising the bet. A round of betting ends when all players but one have
folded (in which case the one remaining player wins the pot), or when all remaining players have
called the current bet. On the first round of betting, if no players raise, the big blind will also have the
option to check, essentially passing his turn; this is because the big blind has already placed the
current bet amount into the pot, but hasn't yet had a chance to act.
Assuming there are two or more players remaining in the hand after the first round of betting, the
dealer will then deal out three community cards in the middle of the table. These cards are known as
the flop. Play now begins, starting with the first player to the left of the dealer button (if every player
is still in the hand, this will be the small blind). Players have the same options as before; in addition, if
no bet has yet been made in the betting round, players have the option to check. A round of betting
can also end if all players check and no bets are made, along with the other ways discussed above.
If two or more players remain in the hand after the second round of betting, the dealer will place a
fourth community card - known as the turn - on the table. Once again, a round of betting ensues,
using the same rules outlined above. Finally, if two or more players are still around after the third
round of betting, the dealer will place the final community card - the river - on the table. One last
round of betting will commence.
After this final round of betting, all remaining players must reveal their hands. The player with the
best hand according to the hand rankings above will win the pot. If two or more players share the
exact same hand, the pot is split evenly between them. After each hand, the button moves one seat to
the left, as do the responsibilities of posting the small and big blinds.
These rules can be viewed online at
httpwww.texasholdemonline.comtexas-holdem-rules